23-07-2024
[    create a html page with black background having a logo of a news channel with a title , a paragraph decribing the news channel. 
     three pictures which are rolling for three different categories of sports , entertainment and politics below the picture create
     4 paragraphs describing the picture, vertical , three columns , below three paragraphs video. 

     A fullstack is a development of a website using one programming language or one technology with : design , develop, test, deploy.

     Mern Stack is a fullstack using javascript only without the use of html, css or any other language.

     What is MERN?
     M - MongoDB
     E - ExpressJS
     R - ReactJS
     N - NodeJS

     Client side - frontend - design- reactJS-front end
     ReactJS is used to design frontend for client side.
     Server side - development - backend - xpressJS - MangoDB
     MongoDB and xpressJS IS used to 
     Fullstack - web application - test- ESLIND
     Inorder to test a fullstack webapplication we use ESLIND
     Fullstack webapplication realtime using thirdparties servers vercel, heroku, firebase

     NodeJS is used as an runtime environment for developing mernstack/javascript application in local environment/case.
 
     NOTE:while installing nodeJS check add path option must be selected

     NODE version msut be greater than 17

     Steps to create react application. reactJS is a library/package to design frontend web application for the client. it is not a language or framework
     reactJS works under node terminology.
     1. Create a directory or a folder in vs code editor. ex: folder name:klu
     2. Navigate to terminal - new terminal option in vs code to open terminal.
     3. change the directory to klu using cd klu in  terminal.
     4. use npm command: node package manager or npx(node package executor) to install react library in terminal
     npm install create-react app clientnpx create - react app client
     the above commands used to setup react front end app
     NOTE:  connect to the internet wait till u get happy hacking messge
     5. change the directory to the cilent using 
     6. use npm start command to run our first react web application.
     7. it will display default react page with react logo
]


24-07-24
[ JAVASCRIPT
	Java is an object oriented programming language, javascript is object-based 
	object oriented means it requires an environment to establish
	learning curve of javascript is easier
	java is multithreading javascript is a single threaded language
	java is compiler based, javascript is interpreter
	** important topics to learn are :
	    1. types of variable declarations: let, var, const
		2. arrays, collections, loops, functions, class, referencing objects
	
	inside client: node_modules consists all package library binary files all installed 
	react project structues: node_modules:
	  packages, libraries or binary files which are installed or installed packages inside the react applicaiton used for project
	NOTE: don't push node_modules into github
	public directory consists all images , files which can be used to share for the applications.
	** index.html is the only one html page to work with react application.
	Source code src consists all codes related to react applications.
]


26-07-24
[ 
	1. create a new project with folder name klu and
	2.inside create a react application with a name erp
	3. install a plug-in using extension es7 react redox snippets
	HINT  use ctrl+shift+s to open extension tab in vs code
	5.	parent of all components is app.js
	component is anything that is visually appeared on the screen
	Components : visually appearing interactive ui developed through react 
	we can create components using two models: 1. function based components
	2.class based components
	Note : in our session we use only funciton-based components
		
	command : npx create-react-app erp
	          npm create-react-app erp
			  npm-g-create-react-app erp
	(stack overflow)

	create 5components :
	1.Students.js : use three students in a list manner, each students consisting id,name,branch,year
	2.Faculty.js : display 3 faculty details in a table manner each faculty have id, name, department, designation
	3.Timetable.js : Days, hours, course, room no. in table manner
	4.Courses.js : display in Card model, coursecode, coursename, lpts, credits
	
	Header.js, 
	Footer.js: display the current date in this format dd/mm/yyy
	we need to create components under src folder or directory under
	components folder
	use ES7 to create function or class-based components.
	
	[rafce] [rcce]
	
	import will be <header/>
	import can be a self closing tag.
	
	{ M107 }
]

30-07-24
[
	
	=> Passing data across components or state management
	1. we can pass the data to the components in two ways either by passing data as arguments, or passing data as props
	
	2.PROPS: Props is keyword. it is an object which can take a collections of multiple
		values. props values are accessed by using props.variableName. 
	3.Object: object in javascript works like a collection, they are created by using {}
	props keyword must be used in functional component as argument
	
	import React from 'react'

	const User = (props) => {
		return (
			<div>
			<h1> Welcome {props.name} logged in as {props.type} at {props.branch}</h1>
			</div>
		)
	}

	export default User

	<User name="teju" type="student"/>
	
	task: use props to work with the existing components : faculty, students,timetable, courses.
	https://bit.ly/Kognitiv-Aventing-24
]

31-07-24

[
	git(version must be greater than 2), gitHub, gitlab(it's a project management website, it is only for private organizations)
	git is a tool to manage projects as version control as well as collaborative development
	git is a command line interface(cli)
	github is a web interface
	private organizations manage their projects using gitlab ex:kl univ
 
	commands: 1. git add (adds files, directories of a project or folder to a git repository
	2. git commit (save permanently)
	3. git push (send local files or directories or projects to the remote repository of github)
	4. git pull (fetches folders, files from github to local system)
	5. git fork (command to access the branches of repositories)
	 
	go to view in vs code, click command palatte, type git:initialize

	create a repository in github using y23MSWD32882
	USe vscode terminal to run the commands of GIT
	check github repository for projects
]

02-08-24
[

      	steps to clone repository from the github to vscode editor.
 	note find a repository that is to be cloned
	1.create a new empty folder or directory in vs code
	2.open the terminal of vs code
	3.configure it with user and email
	4.run the command "git clone repo_url"
        5.extract the folder or directory of the cloned repository
	6.install all dependencies using "npm install"
	7.change the directory of the app
	8.npm start

	keyword CI/CD = continuous integration/continuous development
	every development of an application requires changes/updates which are continuous. CI/CD option provides ;
	1 pipeline of works
	2 workflows

	Task- provide steps to purchase a mobile from an e-commerce website. imp note= imagine the user is not a techinal person
	provide the steps till the products to the customer.
	s1- open flipkart.com
	s2- in search bar type smartphones 
	s3- use filter and sort to sort out the price range, brand, model, and other specifications
	s4- after selecting the mobile u need, add it cart
	s5- check for any discounts or coupons that are available and like buy now, 
	s6- u will be taken to the screen of address page in order to select where the product is to be delivered
	s7- after that paymode page will open , u have to select the payment options like creditcard, cash on delivery
	s8- after successfully placing the order, u will get notifications of the delivery date, packing, shipping,arriving
	and out for delivery .

	task to do --- create a component called feedback with the data passed throug props or collections
		use following attributes for feedback -- 1. faculty id, name , course, description of feedback
		use 5 faculty feedbacks as details as a collections and pass as props
		create a component called counsellor having cousellor id, name , student count, branch
	use card layout for counsellor with props and use props 
	HINT USE INLINE OR GLOBAL STYLES FOR ALL COMPONENTS
	use table, lists, cards
	hint use jquery to animate

]

27-08-24

[
	

     
	



 	
	